# azure-states

This software repository contains the API implementation of OAS (Swagger) specification [states.json](https://github.com/dlwhitehurst/azure-states/blob/main/states.json). The implementation is written in Java and makes use of the Azure libraries for serverless functions.

## Strategy
You can generate stub function methods from the OpenAPI specification file but I found that this caused
more frustration than just starting from a single HttpTrigger generation. The API spec is contained within
this repo and can be opened for reference in the IDE as well as uploaded to Swagger for viewing the API
documentation. 

I have added a minimal Postman collection that exercises each of the API resources when testing locally
using the Run and Debug area in VS Code.

A single function `/api/v1/dummy` is provided and a Java test will run without error. Each function should
be tested thoroughly and those tests may be added here in the future.

## Prerequisites
- OpenJDK at `C:\Program Files\Eclipse Adoptium\jdk-8.0.362.9-hotspot` (see notes below)
- Apache Maven 3.9+
- Visual Studio Code (VS Code)
- VS Code Extensions (see below)

## VS Code Extensions Used
- Azure Account
- Azure App Service
- Azure CLI Tools
- Azure Databases
- Azure Developer CLI
- Azure Functions
- Azure Resource Manager
- Azure Resources
- Azure Static Web Apps
- Azure Storage
- Azure Tools
- Azure Virtual Machines
- Debugger for Java
- Dependency Analytics
- Extension Pack for Java
- IntelliCode
- IntelliCode API Usage Examples
- Language Support for Java
- Maven for Java
- OpenAPI Swagger Editor
- Project Manager for Java
- Rest Client
- Test Runner for Java
- Yaml (By Redhat)

## Quickstart
Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/dlwhitehurst/azure-states.git`

## Notes
The Java SDK/JDK chosen was version 1.8 only because the stub function generated within VS Code used 1.8
in the Maven project file [pom.xml](https://github.com/dlwhitehurst/azure-states/blob/main/pom.xml). The
VS Code extensions were done as needed during my development. Be sure to note that when one extension is
installed, several others may come with that installation. 

Take special note of the file [hosts.json]() in the project level directory. This file is generated by the
Azure Functions extension but the `extensions` section was added by me after the function generation and 
before implementation began. The `http.routePrefix` may be set to `""` and the /api .. part of the base URL
may be removed.

